GraphQL support to the Matrix Field Type (#922)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/api/field_type_reference.md

]);
```

### GraphQL Field Type operations

> To get a Matrix Field Type, you will need to specify a Content ID, a Content Type, and a Field Type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get a Field of the Matrix Field Type with GraphQL, you will need to specify a Content ID, a Content Type, and a Field Type. 
```

> To get a Matrix Field Type, you will need to specify a Content ID, a Content Type, and a Field Type. 

Reviewer 2: Is the fact that you need a Content ID relevant here ? First, it is not accurate, as you can ask for all items of a type without an ID. Second, the fact that you need a content id to get an item isn't specific to Matrix.

> The types used for input and returned are named after the Type and the Field: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The types that are used for input and returned are named after the Type and the Field: 
```

> The types used for input and returned are named after the Type and the Field: 

Reviewer: Does "Type" refer to "Content Type" here? Then it's worth adding:

```suggestion
The types that are used for input and returned are named after the Content Type and the Field: 
```

> - `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}RowInput`

Reviewer 2: We should add at least two examples of this. Suggestion:
- `dish.nutritionFacts`
- still thinking, maybe I'll think of one later :)

- `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}Row`

> The example below shows GraphQL query for a List Content Type (Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added), that has two fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows a GraphQL query for a List Content Type (Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added), that has two fields:
```

> The example below shows GraphQL query for a List Content Type (Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added), that has two fields:

Reviewer 2: The Content Type would be something like "recipe" or "dish", would it not ? Also, we can't use "type" that way, we should use "items".

- `name`: `ezstring`

> - `ingredientList`: `ezmatrix` with two columns: `ingredient` and `quantity`

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't call it "ingredientList", but "ingredients".

```
{
  content {

>     #provide content ID, location ID or remote ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # provide content ID, location ID or remote ID
```

    list(id: 123) {
      name
      ingredientList {
        ingredient
        quantity
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The Type returned for the Matrix Field exposes columns defined in the Field definition:

```
{
  "data": {
    "content": {
      "list": {
        "name": "Cake ingredients",
        "ingredientList": [
          {
            "ingredient": "Butter",
            "quantity": "200 grams"
          },
          {
            "ingredient": "Sugar",
            "quantity": "100 grams"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> **Query for the Field Type and Field definition's details**

Reviewer 2: We may want to add a small paragraph explaining why you want to do that (you want to do that either for a) as a developer, inspecting the existing types b) reading details about the content types and their fields in the context of a backoffice like application.

Note that this is not specific to this field type. What is specific for this type is that you can ask for the list of columns, and that they have a name and identifier.

> **Query for the Field Type and Field definition's details**

Reviewer: Change to heading?
```suggestion
#### Query for the Field Type and Field definition's details
```

```
{
  content {
    _types {
      list {
        ingredientList {
          settings {
            minimumRows
            columns {
              name
              identifier
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Response should list the exposed Field Type settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response will list the exposed Field Type settings:
```

- minimumRows
- columns
    - name
    - identifier

Example response:

```
{
  "data": {
    "content": {
      "_types": {
        "list": {
          "ingredientList": {
            "settings": {
              "minimumRows": 1,
              "columns": [
                {
                  "name": "ingredient",
                  "identifier": "ingredient"
                },
                {
                  "name": "quantity",
                  "identifier": "quantity"
                }
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> **Mutation**

Reviewer: Change to heading?
```suggestion
#### Mutation
```

To create a Matrix Field Type you need to define Field Type and Field definition identifiers.

> Below example shows you how to create a List Content Type (Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added) that has two fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows how to create a List Content Type (Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added) that has two fields:
```

> Below example shows you how to create a List Content Type (Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added) that has two fields:

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't call it "create a List Content Type". First, we should really rename the type used as an example to something meaningful, not a set of technical terms. "Recipe" with an "ingredients" field would really be a better choice. "nutritionFacts" is also a good one (calories, etc). Then the sentence would be to "how to create a recipe content item".

Note: you can NOT create and edit content types with GraphQL. Only content items.

- `name`: `"Cake Ingredient List"`
- `ingredientList`: `ezmatrix` with two columns: `ingredient` and `quantity`

```
 mutation AddList {
  createList(
    language: eng_GB
    parentLocationId: 2,
    input: {
      name: "Cake Ingredient List",
      ingredientList: [
        {ingredient: "sugar", quantity: "100 grams"}
        {ingredient: "butter", quantity: "200 grams"}
      ]
    }
  ) {
    name
  }
}
```

> Response should confirm creation of the new List Field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response will confirm the creation of the new List Field:
```

]);
```

### GraphQL Field Type operations

To get a Matrix Field Type, you will need to specify a Content ID, a Content Type, and a Field Type. 
The types used for input and returned are named after the Type and the Field: 

- `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}RowInput`
- `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}Row`

> The example below shows GraphQL query for a Recipe Content Type (Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added), that has two fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows a GraphQL query for a Recipe Content item (belonging to a Content Type with a Matrix Field added), that has two Fields:
```

- `name`: `ezstring`
- `ingredients`: `ezmatrix` with two columns: `ingredient` and `quantity`

```
{
  content {
    recipe(id: 123) {
      name
      ingredients {
        ingredient
        quantity
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The Type returned for the Matrix Field exposes columns defined in the Field definition:

```
{
  "data": {
    "content": {
      "recipe": {
        "name": "Cake ingredients",
        "ingredients": [
          {
            "ingredient": "Butter",
            "quantity": "200 grams"
          },
          {
            "ingredient": "Sugar",
            "quantity": "100 grams"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Query for the Field Type and Field definition's details**

With this query you can inspect:

- the existing types 

> - details of Content Types, and their fields in the context of a back office like applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- details of Content Types, and their Fields in the context of developing your own application
```
?

> In case of Matrix Field Type, you can ask for the list of columns, their names and identifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of a Matrix Field, you can ask for the list of columns, their names and identifiers.
```

```
{
  content {
    _types {
      recipe {
        ingredients {
          settings {
            minimumRows
            columns {
              name
              identifier
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Response should list the exposed Field Type settings:

- minimumRows
- columns
    - name
    - identifier

Example response:

```
{
  "data": {
    "content": {
      "_types": {
        "recipe": {
          "ingredients": {
            "settings": {
              "minimumRows": 1,
              "columns": [
                {
                  "name": "ingredient",
                  "identifier": "ingredient"
                },
                {
                  "name": "quantity",
                  "identifier": "quantity"
                }
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Mutation**

To create a Matrix Field Type you need to define Field Type and Field definition identifiers.

> Below example shows you how to create a Recipe Content Type (Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added) that has two fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows how to create a Recipe Content item (belonging to a Content Type with a Matrix Field Type added) that has two Fields:
```

- `name`: `"Cake Ingredient List"`
- `ingredients`: `ezmatrix` with two columns: `ingredient` and `quantity`

```
 mutation AddRecipe {
  createRecipe(
    language: eng_GB
    parentLocationId: 2,
    input: {
      name: "Cake Ingredient List",
      ingredients: [
        {ingredient: "sugar", quantity: "100 grams"}
        {ingredient: "butter", quantity: "200 grams"}
      ]
    }
  ) {
    name
  }
}
```

> Response should confirm creation of the new Recipe Field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response will confirm creation of the new Recipe Field:
```

]);
```

### GraphQL Field Type operations

To get a Field of the Matrix Field Type with GraphQL, you will need to specify a Content ID, a Content Type, and a Field Type. 

The types that are used for input and returned are named after the Type and the Field: 

> - `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}RowInput` e.g. `dish.nutritionFacts`, `event.agenda`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}RowInput` e.g. `dish.nutritionFacts`, `event.agenda`: `DishNutritionFactsRowInput`, `EventAgendaRowInput`
```

- `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}Row`

The example below shows a GraphQL query for a Recipe Content item (belonging to a Content Type with a Matrix Field added), that has two Fields:

- `name`: `ezstring`
- `ingredients`: `ezmatrix` with two columns: `ingredient` and `quantity`

```
{
  content {
    recipe(id: 123) {
      name
      ingredients {
        ingredient
        quantity
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The Type returned for the Matrix Field exposes columns defined in the Field definition:

```
{
  "data": {
    "content": {
      "recipe": {
        "name": "Cake ingredients",
        "ingredients": [
          {
            "ingredient": "Butter",
            "quantity": "200 grams"
          },
          {
            "ingredient": "Sugar",
            "quantity": "100 grams"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Query for the Field Type and Field definition's details

With this query you can inspect:

- the existing types 

> - details of Content Types, and their Fields in the context of developing your own application

Reviewer 2: One thing that I mentioned earlier: this sentence is more of a general info about GraphQL, Content types and fields definitions. It is not limited to the matrix field, and would deserve to be mentioned in a general GraphQL chapter.

In case of a Matrix Field, you can ask for the list of columns, their names and identifiers.

```
{
  content {
    _types {
      recipe {
        ingredients {
          settings {
            minimumRows
            columns {
              name
              identifier
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The response will list the exposed Field Type settings:

- minimumRows
- columns
    - name
    - identifier

Example response:

```
{
  "data": {
    "content": {
      "_types": {
        "recipe": {
          "ingredients": {
            "settings": {
              "minimumRows": 1,
              "columns": [
                {
                  "name": "ingredient",
                  "identifier": "ingredient"
                },
                {
                  "name": "quantity",
                  "identifier": "quantity"
                }
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Mutation

> To create a Matrix Field Type you need to define Field Type and Field definition identifiers.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is where the `RowInput` type from above could be documented, since it is where it is used.

#### Mutation

To create a Matrix Field Type you need to define Field Type and Field definition identifiers.
The types that are used for input and returned are named after the Type and the Field: 

- `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}RowInput` e.g. `dish.nutritionFacts`, `event.agenda`: `DishNutritionFactsRowInput`, `EventAgendaRowInput`

> - `{TypeIdentifier}{FieldIdentifier}Row`

Reviewer 2: This one should still be documented in the section about _retrieving_ matrix content with GraphQL ;)
